README.md, before:

# Noted
_Organize for the home together._

### Overview
- A UX design project for my UX design course (spring 2017)
- Objective is to figure out a problem related to the home, and design an app solving that problem.
  - I came up with the problem after conducting surveys and doing further research related to the survey topics.
  - I then conducted the UX design process; designing, getting feedback, then designing with that feedback.
  - Final result is a fully designed, working prototype. 

_Note: Original presentation for this project is done on Google Slides. I created this repository for the sake of having the assets on my GitHub.
If you wish to see the Google Slides version, [click here]()._

## Process / Table of contents
1. [Finding the problem](#finding-the-problem)
    
    a. [Quantitative survey](#quantitative-survey)
    
    b. [Further research and analysis](#further-research-and-analysis)
2. [Formulize a problem statement](#formulize-a-problem-statement)
3. [Create user personas](#create-a-user-persona)
4. [Formulize a hypothesis statement](#formulize-a-hypothesis-statement)
5. [Initial sitemapping](#initial-sitemapping)
6. [Initial wireframes](#initial-wireframes)
7. [Feedback](#feedback)
8. [Revised sitemapping](#revised-sitemapping)
9. [Revised wireframes](#revised-wireframes)
10. [Final prototypes](#final-prototypes)



---
---


## Finding the problem

### Quantitative survey

I conducted a small survey and had about 10 people participate. 
Survey questions asks participants about their cohabitual shopping habits and some cohabitual living habits. 

These are the results for each question: 


<img alt="Question 1" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q1.jpg" width="428" height="256"> <img src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q2.jpg" width="428" height="256">
<img alt="Question 1" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q3.jpg" width="428" height="256"> <img src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q4.jpg" width="428" height="256">
<img alt="Question 1" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q5.jpg" width="428" height="256"> <img src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q6.jpg" width="428" height="256">
<img alt="Question 1" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q7.jpg" width="428" height="256"> <img src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q8.jpg" width="428" height="256">
<img alt="Question 1" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q9.jpg" width="428" height="256"> <img src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q10.jpg" width="428" height="256">
<img alt="Question 1" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q11.jpg" width="428" height="256"> <img src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q12.jpg" width="428" height="256">



### Further research and analysis

After conducting the survey, I compiled a survey results analysis: 

<img alt="Survey results summary" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/surveyanalysis.jpg">

* Most want to buy things for their room/home. `~ 75%`
* Most forget what to buy when grocery shopping → buys more than needed. `~ 75% - 87%`
* Most do not use shopping lists. `~ 60%`
 *`~ 33%` think it’s a hassle. 
* Most have housemates do shopping for them. `~ 87%`
* More than half forget to do chores. `~ 60%`
* Chores mostly done by housemates.
* `~ 33%` of their housemates forget. 


---


Along with conducting the survey, I've also looked into a few sources to serve as resources for basing problem statements. 

I've found some of these statistics online with their respective source: 

<img alt="2015 chart of grocery shopping list usage in the United States by generation" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/b%20-%20Further%20Research%20and%20Analysis/ListUsage.png">

  [statista.com link to the graph](https://www.statista.com/statistics/490730/us-consumers-grocery-shopping-list-usage-generation/)
 
 <img alt="2015 chart of grocery shopping list usage in the United States by generation" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/b%20-%20Further%20Research%20and%20Analysis/DigitalVsHandwritten.png">

  [mmn.com article for the above pie chart](https://www.mnn.com/green-tech/gadgets-electronics/blogs/your-grocery-list-handwritten-digital
)

---

I've also looked into other existing apps, and did a competitive analysis. Through competitive analysis, I look at features existing, similar apps have and compare with the app I'm designing.  

<img alt="2015 chart of grocery shopping list usage in the United States by generation" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/b%20-%20Further%20Research%20and%20Analysis/CompetitiveAnalysis.jpg">


---
---


## Formulize a problem statement

After conducting my survey and doing some further research, I formulated a problem statement addressing people living and shopping for their co-habitants: 

**Problem statement:**

> **Families and roommates need an easy way to have digital collaborative lists because they want to better organize what’s bought and what’s done for their home.**

This problem statement serves as a guide and reminder for designing the app. It serves to let me know that my app will be a solution to this problem.



---
---


## Create a user persona

Along with the problem statement to guide me on how to design an app solution for the problem, I've also created user personas. 

A user persona is a fictional being you create that would be a representation of your target demographic. Keeping your user personas in mind while designing the app helps remember who you're making the app for. 

I've created two user personas for this project: 

<img alt="User persona profile of Emma Wu" src="/3%20-%20User%20Personas/Project%203%20-%20College%20student%20persona.jpg">

 
<img alt="User persona profile of Gayle Mendoza" src="/3%20-%20User%20Personas/Project%203%20-%20Mom%20persona.jpg">



---
---


## Formulize a hypothesis statement

After creating the problem statement and user personas, I've then formulated the hypothesis statement: 

**Hypothesis statement:**

> **By creating a multimodal lightweight app for families and roommates, they can easily collaborate lists to better organize for their home. We know this to be true when the app is used for people’s lists and notes.**

Hypothesis statements test assumptions about the product, and has an expectation that the product will try to solve while addressing to the target demographic (in this case, the target demographic is families and roommates living in the same home).  



---
---


## Initial sitemapping

I then planned out the sitemap for the product, which visually shows what pages or components the app will have for the end user. 

<img alt="Initial sitemap for Noted" src="/5%20-%20Initial%20Sitemapping/Noted%20-%20Sitemap.png">


---
---


## Initial wireframes

After the initial sitemapping, I've created the wireframes for each page. 

Wireframes serve as a visual guide that show the basic skeletal structure of a webpage. There is no styling or aesthetics implemented; wireframes only show where the page's different elements would be. 

_Note: Not all wireframes are displayed below; the rest of the wireframes can be found [here](/6%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes)_

![A nice wireframe showing a login page](/6%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes/Noted%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes-3.jpg) 
![A nice wireframe showing a list of items](/6%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes/Noted%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes-6.jpg) 
![A nice wireframe showing a list of people](/6%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes/Noted%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes-5.jpg)
![A nice wireframe showing a list of lists](/6%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes/Noted%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes-8.jpg)



---
---


## Feedback

Feedback received from professor, class, and a few friends. 

Most prevalent feedback points: 
> “One kind of list instead of two kinds of lists would be simpler.” 

> “Smartwatch view won’t fit all of this…”

I took these into consideration to redo the app’s structure and wireframes, as shown in the next following steps.


---
---


## Revised sitemapping

After receiving feedback, I revised the sitemap for the product so navigation is simpler. Instead of taking two types of lists into account, I've planned out the sitemap that would implement only one kind of list. 

![Revised sitemap](/8%20-%20Revised%20Sitemapping/Noted%20-%20Sitemap%20revision.png)


---
---


## Revised wireframes

With the feedback and revised sitemapping into consideration, I revised the wireframes for the app's pages. Most pages underwent slight UI changes. 

The following are some examples of the revised wireframes: 

_Note: Not all wireframes are displayed below; the rest of the wireframes can be found [here](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes)_

![Revised wireframe showing the main page, with some UI changes](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframe1.png)
![Personal, editable profile page](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframe2.png)
![Page showing the list of people allowed to collaborate on the respectve list](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframe3.png)
![Page displaying a list of lists user has made on the app](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframe5.png)

![Smartwatch view showing the main page](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframeWatch4.png)
![Smartwatch view showing the main page when an item is selected](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframeWatch2.png)
![Smartwatch view showing activity history for a list](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframeWatch1.png)
![Smartwatch view prompting the user to select Voice or Text input to add an item for smartwatch view](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframeWatch3.png)


---
---


## Final prototypes

After getting feedback from the professor and a few others, I had the OK to continue the project using these wireframes. 

I had then applied the visual design for the app. With that, I had compiled a working, styled application prototype for both mobile/fridge view and smartwatch view. 

Links to the prototypes can be found here: 

- [Mobile/Fridge view](https://xd.adobe.com/view/174f95c6-a447-47a5-a40f-5bfe75f35459/)
- [Smartawtch view](https://xd.adobe.com/view/1ea94b91-8bc6-4a8f-a3d3-d26705ae41ed/)



Previews for the applied aesthetic for each respective view: 

![Mobile and fridge view of the home page for the app](/10%20-%20Final%20Prototypes/Mobile%20and%20Fridge%20jpgs/Home%20–%202.jpg)
![Smartwatch view of the home page for the app](/10%20-%20Final%20Prototypes/Smartwatch%20jpgs/Smartwatch%20-%20Home%20(default%20list)%20–%202.jpg)

Commit message:

added Back to Top anchors

README.md, after:

# Noted
_Organize for the home together._

### Overview
- A UX design project for my UX design course (spring 2017)
- Objective is to figure out a problem related to the home, and design an app solving that problem.
  - I came up with the problem after conducting surveys and doing further research related to the survey topics.
  - I then conducted the UX design process; designing, getting feedback, then designing with that feedback.
  - Final result is a fully designed, working prototype. 


## Table of contents and process
1. [Finding the problem](#finding-the-problem)
    
    a. [Quantitative survey](#quantitative-survey)
    
    b. [Further research and analysis](#further-research-and-analysis)
2. [Formulize a problem statement](#formulize-a-problem-statement)
3. [Create user personas](#create-a-user-persona)
4. [Formulize a hypothesis statement](#formulize-a-hypothesis-statement)
5. [Initial sitemapping](#initial-sitemapping)
6. [Initial wireframes](#initial-wireframes)
7. [Feedback](#feedback)
8. [Revised sitemapping](#revised-sitemapping)
9. [Revised wireframes](#revised-wireframes)
10. [Final prototypes](#final-prototypes)



---
---


## Finding the problem

### Quantitative survey

[back to top](#table-of-contents-and-process)

I conducted a small survey and had about 10 people participate. 
Survey questions asks participants about their cohabitual shopping habits and some cohabitual living habits. 

These are the results for each question: 


<img alt="Question 1" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q1.jpg" width="428" height="256"> <img src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q2.jpg" width="428" height="256">
<img alt="Question 1" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q3.jpg" width="428" height="256"> <img src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q4.jpg" width="428" height="256">
<img alt="Question 1" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q5.jpg" width="428" height="256"> <img src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q6.jpg" width="428" height="256">
<img alt="Question 1" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q7.jpg" width="428" height="256"> <img src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q8.jpg" width="428" height="256">
<img alt="Question 1" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q9.jpg" width="428" height="256"> <img src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q10.jpg" width="428" height="256">
<img alt="Question 1" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q11.jpg" width="428" height="256"> <img src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/q12.jpg" width="428" height="256">



### Further research and analysis

[back to top](#table-of-contents-and-process)

After conducting the survey, I compiled a survey results analysis: 

<img alt="Survey results summary" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/a%20-%20Quantitative%20Survey/surveyanalysis.jpg">

* Most want to buy things for their room/home. `~ 75%`
* Most forget what to buy when grocery shopping → buys more than needed. `~ 75% - 87%`
* Most do not use shopping lists. `~ 60%`
 *`~ 33%` think it’s a hassle. 
* Most have housemates do shopping for them. `~ 87%`
* More than half forget to do chores. `~ 60%`
* Chores mostly done by housemates.
* `~ 33%` of their housemates forget. 


---


Along with conducting the survey, I've also looked into a few sources to serve as resources for basing problem statements. 

I've found some of these statistics online with their respective source: 

<img alt="2015 chart of grocery shopping list usage in the United States by generation" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/b%20-%20Further%20Research%20and%20Analysis/ListUsage.png">

  [statista.com link to the graph](https://www.statista.com/statistics/490730/us-consumers-grocery-shopping-list-usage-generation/)
 
 <img alt="2015 chart of grocery shopping list usage in the United States by generation" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/b%20-%20Further%20Research%20and%20Analysis/DigitalVsHandwritten.png">

  [mmn.com article for the above pie chart](https://www.mnn.com/green-tech/gadgets-electronics/blogs/your-grocery-list-handwritten-digital
)

---

I've also looked into other existing apps, and did a competitive analysis. Through competitive analysis, I look at features existing, similar apps have and compare with the app I'm designing.  

<img alt="2015 chart of grocery shopping list usage in the United States by generation" src="/1%20-%20Finding%20the%20Problem/b%20-%20Further%20Research%20and%20Analysis/CompetitiveAnalysis.jpg">


---
---


## Formulize a problem statement

[back to top](#table-of-contents-and-process)

After conducting my survey and doing some further research, I formulated a problem statement addressing people living and shopping for their co-habitants: 

**Problem statement:**

> **Families and roommates need an easy way to have digital collaborative lists because they want to better organize what’s bought and what’s done for their home.**

This problem statement serves as a guide and reminder for designing the app. It serves to let me know that my app will be a solution to this problem.



---
---


## Create a user persona

[back to top](#table-of-contents-and-process)

Along with the problem statement to guide me on how to design an app solution for the problem, I've also created user personas. 

A user persona is a fictional being you create that would be a representation of your target demographic. Keeping your user personas in mind while designing the app helps remember who you're making the app for. 

I've created two user personas for this project: 

<img alt="User persona profile of Emma Wu" src="/3%20-%20User%20Personas/Project%203%20-%20College%20student%20persona.jpg">

 
<img alt="User persona profile of Gayle Mendoza" src="/3%20-%20User%20Personas/Project%203%20-%20Mom%20persona.jpg">



---
---


## Formulize a hypothesis statement

[back to top](#table-of-contents-and-process)

After creating the problem statement and user personas, I've then formulated the hypothesis statement: 

**Hypothesis statement:**

> **By creating a multimodal lightweight app for families and roommates, they can easily collaborate lists to better organize for their home. We know this to be true when the app is used for people’s lists and notes.**

Hypothesis statements test assumptions about the product, and has an expectation that the product will try to solve while addressing to the target demographic (in this case, the target demographic is families and roommates living in the same home).  



---
---


## Initial sitemapping

[back to top](#table-of-contents-and-process)

I then planned out the sitemap for the product, which visually shows what pages or components the app will have for the end user. 

<img alt="Initial sitemap for Noted" src="/5%20-%20Initial%20Sitemapping/Noted%20-%20Sitemap.png">


---
---


## Initial wireframes

[back to top](#table-of-contents-and-process)

After the initial sitemapping, I've created the wireframes for each page. 

Wireframes serve as a visual guide that show the basic skeletal structure of a webpage. There is no styling or aesthetics implemented; wireframes only show where the page's different elements would be. 

_Note: Not all wireframes are displayed below; the rest of the wireframes can be found [here](/6%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes)_

![A nice wireframe showing a login page](/6%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes/Noted%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes-3.jpg) 
![A nice wireframe showing a list of items](/6%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes/Noted%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes-6.jpg) 
![A nice wireframe showing a list of people](/6%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes/Noted%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes-5.jpg)
![A nice wireframe showing a list of lists](/6%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes/Noted%20-%20Initial%20Wireframes-8.jpg)



---
---


## Feedback

[back to top](#table-of-contents-and-process)

Feedback received from professor, class, and a few friends. 

Most prevalent feedback points: 
> “One kind of list instead of two kinds of lists would be simpler.” 

> “Smartwatch view won’t fit all of this…”

I took these into consideration to redo the app’s structure and wireframes, as shown in the next following steps.


---
---


## Revised sitemapping

[back to top](#table-of-contents-and-process)

After receiving feedback, I revised the sitemap for the product so navigation is simpler. Instead of taking two types of lists into account, I've planned out the sitemap that would implement only one kind of list. 

![Revised sitemap](/8%20-%20Revised%20Sitemapping/Noted%20-%20Sitemap%20revision.png)


---
---


## Revised wireframes

[back to top](#table-of-contents-and-process)

With the feedback and revised sitemapping into consideration, I revised the wireframes for the app's pages. Most pages underwent slight UI changes. 

The following are some examples of the revised wireframes: 

_Note: Not all wireframes are displayed below; the rest of the wireframes can be found [here](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes)_

![Revised wireframe showing the main page, with some UI changes](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframe1.png)
![Personal, editable profile page](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframe2.png)
![Page showing the list of people allowed to collaborate on the respectve list](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframe3.png)
![Page displaying a list of lists user has made on the app](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframe5.png)

![Smartwatch view showing the main page](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframeWatch4.png)
![Smartwatch view showing the main page when an item is selected](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframeWatch2.png)
![Smartwatch view showing activity history for a list](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframeWatch1.png)
![Smartwatch view prompting the user to select Voice or Text input to add an item for smartwatch view](/9%20-%20Revised%20Wireframes/midfidelityWireframeWatch3.png)


---
---


## Final prototypes

[back to top](#table-of-contents-and-process)

After getting feedback from the professor and a few others, I had the OK to continue the project using these wireframes. 

I had then applied the visual design for the app. With that, I had compiled a working, styled application prototype for both mobile/fridge view and smartwatch view. 

Links to the prototypes can be found here: 

- [Mobile/Fridge view](https://xd.adobe.com/view/174f95c6-a447-47a5-a40f-5bfe75f35459/)
- [Smartawtch view](https://xd.adobe.com/view/1ea94b91-8bc6-4a8f-a3d3-d26705ae41ed/)



Previews for the applied aesthetic for each respective view: 

![Mobile and fridge view of the home page for the app](/10%20-%20Final%20Prototypes/Mobile%20and%20Fridge%20jpgs/Home%20–%202.jpg)
![Smartwatch view of the home page for the app](/10%20-%20Final%20Prototypes/Smartwatch%20jpgs/Smartwatch%20-%20Home%20(default%20list)%20–%202.jpg)
